>> Steve Kinney: There
are some challenges though,
because you're doing the math between two
different strings to see if they relate.
And this is true if you do like we talk
about that retrieval augmented generation,
which is, hey, I want to take all my
data and I want to turn it into vectors,
numbers.
And I want to, on a prompt, go figure
out what of my data I want to add onto
the prompt so I can get a response back
from ChatGPT more related to my stuff.
The problem with a lot of
the algorithms is they are expecting
mathematical sets of numbers
that are the same length and so
what do you do when you have two
strings that are not the same length?
You just make them the same length, and
you do that by filling
them up with nothingness.
It's kind of like in JavaScript, if you do
like new array 10, it's weird because you
get like some weird undefined thing and
then you got a map, it's not important.
You can make arrays of nothingness, and
effectively what you do in this case
is a special token, that pad token
at the bottom where if we had like
the cat sat and the cat sat on the bed.
You would just fill in the shorter
sentence with the empty tokens, and
then you'd have two that were
the exact same length and
now you can do all of the math that
you need to do to figure it out.
In which a liberal arts
major discusses math,
you do all the math you need to do,
but effectively, for our purposes,
that is accurate and so basically we
just add nothingness onto the end.
And then we have a lot of times
what's called an attention mask,
which is, let's say you had
a string of tokens and it's 10,
it was 3, 4, 5 tokens long,
you needed to have 10.
You'd also have a mask, which is like
however many tokens of real actual content
would be ones and
then the zeros would be zeros.
So you can figure out how much of that to
ignore when we actually go deal with it
again and decode it.
And so we have a way to like
normalize everything and
then we have a cheat code to go back to
what it actually was to denormalize it.
And we'll see this in a second,
we'll see it on a slide, but
we'll also see it in it,
we're doing the game where like,
let's talk about the concepts
get a little confused.
And then see in practicality,
where we already have some
flags planted in the ground.
Is the reason that they're all
the same length is because you're
feeding into a neural network.
Yeah.
And it's just, like,
you have this many inputs, so
you have to give it everything, something.
Exactly, and so it's comparing
the relationship of two strings,
they need to be the same length.
And so in this case, if we had one
where these are all the actual tokens
in this case, I think the period counted.
I did this on purpose,
I definitely measured it out,
I forget my rationale on it and
you had two pads on there.
You would, I think, because the initial,
the beginning of the sentence token and
then the separator, you end up with the
special tokens in there, so you're like,
that's three words, beginning, end, five.
You would end up with all the ones
that actually relate to tokens
we care about and zeros representing
we don't actually care about these.
We just, again,
had to have equal length of vectors
to pass into the neural network.
And so those are our initial
tokenizations, we've got a tokenization
playground that we're going to play
with before we get too excited and
talk about Transformers.